--- 
date: 2020-07-06T22:00:00Z 
description: "An unfortunate end to one of the few online experiences i actually enjoyed"
title: "Mirrors Edge Catalyst servers have been shut down"
---

Mirrors Edge Catalyst's servers have been shut down just a few days before christmas last year, talk about unhappy holidays for fans of the game like myself. What does that mean though? are the high scores still stored somewhere? Well no, those are gone. What about user created runs, Beat L.E's, etc? What was kept around and what is completely gone? Simply put. Everything is gone. Even when you try to log into mirrorsedge.dice.se you get an error saying 'invalid client' meaning you cant even so much as customize your runner tag. But why? why were the servers shutdown? Is this maybe because we might see a Mirror's Edge 3 soon? That's what i was hoping until i looked it up and according to [this article](https://www.videogameschronicle.com/news/dices-new-boss-says-it-has-no-time-for-mirrors-edge-style-projects-were-focusing-on-battlefield/) released in June 2022 Dice isnt interested in making any games apart from Battlefield. As stupid as i think it is for them to put all their eggs in that basket, it is their decision at the end of the day, i can only do my part in never touching a battlefield game hoping more people will do the same, then maybe one day Dice will reconsider their decision. Otherwise we can only hope Dice sells the Mirror's edge IP to a company passionate enough to do it justice with a sequel. Some good news about the servers though, there is a team trying to bring them back through a project called The Beat Revival. If you want to keep track of how the project is going or would like to find out how you can help you can visit their [website](https://beatrevival.me/), where you can see how you can support them, maybe join the team if you're interested. I'm hopeful that the project will be a success and i'm looking forward to seeing Mirror's Edge Catalyst back online soon, so i can claim the Nr.1 spot in my favorite runs before the cracked players collsion boost and bunnyhop my time into irrelevance. :p
