---
title: 'God of War Rant and Review  '
date: 2020-06-14
slug: God of War Rant and Review
description: Not for me anymore
keywords:
- god of war game
- gaming
tags: []
stylesheet: post.css
draft: true

---
## A Good Game, Not My God of War Game

After playing the new installment in the God of War franchise, around 2 years late mind you, i couldn't help finding myself disappointed in this franchises new direction. I'm sure i'm not the only metaphorically graying fan of the God of War of old, that has come to expect a significant amount of brutality, destruction and distractions of the feminine variety that offer a bit more than the exchange of words during conversation, Now i won't be so petty as to say that the lack of the infamous mandatory sex mini-game was the final nail in the coffin, however that cup of sugar would have helped the medicine that is this games story, as well as its attempts at being emotional go down far smoother.

\-The Rant-

I keep hearing this notion that the game shines a new light on Kratos, the story has been made much deeper and the game is actually showing off his humanity and that has never been done before. Did we already forget God of War Ascension, Ghost of Sparta and Chains of Olympus thats purpose was to give you a more in depth look into why Kratos became the angry bastard he is? Even the original trilogy had moments showing the humanity in Kratos and what was driving him to kill the gods. Kratos wasn't an angry destructive man just because he was an angry destructive man, He was a grieving father and husband who carried the guilt of murdering his family because of a deal he made with a deceptive god to save his own life on his shoulders, after which he was subjected to months of enslavement and torture by the God who stole his life from him, when he escaped he served the gods for over a decade and they had done nothing but deceive, manipulate, torture and control him with the false promise that his visions would be removed if he obeyed well enough. And when the cat was out of the bag and he learned he would never have the visions taken away from him, they wouldn't even allow him to end his life, and instead gave him a throne and a title he never asked for, nor wanted. Then he finds out his brother has spent his entire child and adult life in torment by the hands of the God of Death, and despite Athena (the Goddess Kratos was closest to) being aware of that fact, she never told him. On top of that it's implied that Kratos' mother was either cursed to become a beast if she ever revealed the identity of his father (Who you find out is Zeus in GOW2) to him or revealed the location of his Brother, and of course she does both and that forces Kratos to kill yet another family member. Then mere moments after finding his brother and reconciling, he is killed in front of him. After all this Kratos is considerably pissed off already so as a bit of petty revenge he takes his rage out on the cities of the Gods to which they respond to with tricking him into draining his power into the Blade of Olympus then sending Zeus to kill him because he refused to serve him, but even that wasn't the final nail in the coffin for Kratos. The final nail in fact was when Zeus used his own drained power to kill every spartan soldier in Rhodes who he saw as his only family left. And we're still not done, much later after being revived by Gaia, Kratos finds the only Spartan soldier who survived Rhodes, and due to the dark room that they were in he was unable to verify the identity of this random assailant forcing him to fight back and kill him, which of course is when he sees who he just mortally wounded, and that is when The Last and dying Spartan tells Kratos of how Zeus had destroyed the last home he had left, Sparta. And that he was looking for the Sisters of Fate, same as him to try and save it. Whether the Sisters of Fate made it so Kratos would find The Last Spartan in the dark room or not isn't confirmed, so you can decide what you believe there. Either way this was the breaking point for Kratos. After he goes back in time and almost defeats Zeus, Athena intervenes and gives a weak Zeus time to make distance which Kratos immediately tries to close with a thrust of the Blade of Olympus that instead kills Athena. A bit more fuel for the already burning fire. All of these events created the bloodthirsty monster you see in God of War 3, and the ruthless ways that Kratos kills all the gods are to show you how little Kratos feels for them at that point. It is story and gameplay not limiting each other, but thriving together. And at the end of it all Kratos earns the freedom to end his life with his soul never to be tortured as he was in life.. Until the after credits scene which i just assumed was Santa Monica making Kratos out to be a kind of boogieman that would keep fans talking about the game for years. If that isn't depth then i don't want depth. make characters as shallow as possible please.

\-The Review and Perspective-

Now with all that being said i did not hate this new game. The world was a bit overly colorful at times but beautiful, The soundtrack was a homerun, The combat is, fine.. it's biggest drawback being the cinematic camera while fighting, as well as the games RPG elements making sure you're under leveled most of the time. Sidequests in a God of War game didn't make much sense to me, but i suppose they are a must have for open world games nowadays. The plot and story didn't really have me but the game did have its moments here and there. I was more annoyed by people disrespecting the series of old and treating this game like the savior of a series that should have just ended after the last prequel dropped. But at the same time if they want to start a new God of War saga set in Norse Mythology, do it. But for me, i've heard the story i wanted to hear from the original God of War and i'm just not interested in another parenting game, especially when i don't like the child star at all. Sorry Atrius. Ellie is cool, you kind of suck. Sorry. And if all i enjoy in the new game are references to the old games, and all i can keep thinking about are the old games, then i think that it's clear that this new direction is not meant for me. This is not the God of War i grew up with, this is a God of War someone else is growing up with. It is nice to see the old God of War influencing the New however, just like Kratos teaching his son how to be a warrior. Though Atrius will never be the warrior Kratos was, and the new God of War will never have the impact on me that the old series had, they do both stand on their own. It's a hard pill to swallow but there it is, this franchise is not meant for me anymore. But here's hoping new God of War fans will love the new Series as much as i adore the old series. Overall if i had to give the game a personal rating i'd give it a 7/10 or 'Good Game'. 

To paraphrase Nick Valentine. Goodbye God of War, Here's to the old days.