--- 
date: 2024-02-29T17:38:00Z 
description: "A fun nostalgic platformer"
title: "Super Meat Boy first impressions"
---

I had recently played the first chapter of Super Meat Boy (2010). From what i've played the game has pretty straight forward mechanics, you move left and right across your screen, you have a jump, a wall jump and sprint, sprinting can extend your horizontal jump while holding jump off a wall jump adds more of an arch to your jump, allowing you to dodge larger obstacles. The game does reward you for being fast however, with a ranking system at the end of the level and having secret levels disappear if you dont get to them fast enough. Additionally there are characters that you can unlock with their own gimmicks, for instance i unlocked a character that was slower than meatboy but was very floaty and could temporarily fly, this makes precise landing easier but could make jumping through the gap between two saws more challenging, so you'll have a slightly different experience replaying levels with different characters. One feature i enjoyed quite a bit is when you finally beat a level you were stuck on, you are rewarded with a replay of all your failed attempts happening at the same time, potentially turning your screen into a gore fest which was actually entertaining to watch. The story is pretty much as simple as stories get, Super Meat Boy has a girlfriend that gets kidnapped by the big bad and you chase him down through the entire game and eventually rescue her. not too much to unpack there, but there is some decent humour along the way. Now i'm burnt out on platformers as i have played quite a few but don't let that stop you from trying this game out for yourself, there is a lot of fun to be had with this one, especially since they added a "race mode" where you can compete with your buddies to beat a level before they do. Definitely check this out if you are a fan of old school platformers and gore.
