+++
date = 2020-07-06T22:00:00Z
description = "What a waste of a perfectly good franchise."
keywords = ["pissedoffgamer", "review", "spoilers", "video games", "the last of us 2"]
slug = "The Last of Us Part 2 Spoiler Rant and Review"
stylesheet = "post.css"
tags = ["review", "spoilers", "the last of us 2"]
title = "The Last of Us Part 2 Spoiler Review and Rant"

+++
\-Rant-

I'm sorry but i understood the story and still didn't like it, i just hate how i am forced through an almost 10 hour segment (Almost as long as the first The Last of Us game to put it in perspective) to connect with a new character despite the way she was introduced simply because Neil said so, when i've already made up my mind about what the end of this game should entail for it to be satisfying to me. I don't care about Abby, no matter how many dogs she pets or how many scenes showing her in similar situations as Ellie. That is something Neil won't seem to understand, as well as the fact that if you had the opinion that Joels decision was fucked up then you would have an easier time forgiving Abby than someone who felt what Joel did was not only justified but was the only real choice, hence your method of killing him will stick with people differently and the opinion on the game as well as its ending will differ. I was under the impression that this is suppose to be a realistic, believable game with very human characters who would react in a way i or anyone would react in a certain persons shoes, and for the most part if it makes sense in the game it makes sense in real life. So with that being said there is one teeny tiny thing that the writer left out in writing this story or just simply decided to conveniently throw logic out the window for, and seems everyone who liked the games story and thought Joel was such a terrible person forgot. There are NO vaccines for any fungus so far TODAY, how in the blue fuck are these people with less than a hundredth of our resources going to all of a sudden develop a Vaccine for the most advanced/aggressive fungus known to man. How would they mass produce it? How would they mass Distribute it? what happens to the people that the vaccine simply doesn't work on? Do they get executed so the immune can reproduce? How effective would the Vaccine be? How many would have access to it? Wouldn't the fireflies have used it as a bargaining chip to put the world under their new world order, based on how they are portrayed in the first game? Are people really just going to ditch the dog eat dog norm that this world adopted? Why does only one doctor know how to make this miracle Vaccine? he didn't think about leaving some notes or sharing his findings with his fellow doctors? Why? So he could have all the glory if it magically worked or because he wasn't certain his method would work and didn't want any prying eyes to doubt his method? Would the procedure actually have worked and would there be a large enough mutated fungus sample scavenged from Ellies brain to actually mean something? What about all the other cases the surgeon mentions in his recording of immune children that they killed for no reason? He says Ellies immunity is different than the others but that doesn't mean it's a guarantee that the vaccine would just work because it's her, does it? Why not just take a plasma sample and see if some of her antibodies could be transmitted to different patients to try and fight off the cordycepts instead of killing her without a second thought? Why are the fireflies portrayed as the good guys in this game when that wasn't the case in the last game? and so many more questions that just make me have the undeniable, overwhelming feeling that the fireflies would have murdered Ellie for nothing, because of their haste in trying to make a cure that was doomed to fail to begin with. And at the rate that the conflict was developing in that end scene, and the bare minimum they shared with Joel about the surgery, there was only one rational human parental response, and he took it and because of that was condemned to die in the most disgraceful way i've ever seen a large character go out, and all because the writers decided that instead of continuing the story in such a way that it keeps the topic of discussion open by giving Joel a respectful death near the end of the game he simply decided for us that what he did was a bad thing, and then delivering unto him a demise that despite the circumstances was not a hole in one in the literary department. And if you want to say "oh well it's a video game so all this stuff happens by magic, the vaccine was pretty much guarenteed" then that shits on the first games tone of realism and in turn shits on the old game for the sake of making a sequel that shouldn't have existed in the first place, with a plot that tries so hard to be complicated it just becomes completely see-through and disorienting in the wrong ways, complete with an unsatisfying ending to make you feel like everything from the intro of the first game and beyond meant absolutely nothing, and makes the "kill your friends" ending in Far Cry 3 seem more satisfying. Speaking of third installments! we're suppose to be excited for a part 3 when, to quote Angry Joe: "All the characters i wanted to play with are destroyed! they're gone! they're nothing! they're broken or dead! all of them are broken or dead! and all the new characters i like in this game are dead and gone and broken". I said it once and i'll say it again. Abby is a piss poor interpretation of The Walking Dead character Negan. For how complicated the story tries to be the character deaths are so lazily written it feels like a 99c store game of thrones season 8. I didn't like game of thrones as a series to begin with, i wasn't told that this game was going to be similar to game of thrones. to be quite honest i was told Ellie would be the only playable protagonist, and trailers made it seem like it was going to be a Joel and Ellie story when it was only a Trojan horse for an Abby and Lev story. I was also told we wouldn't be forced to kill dogs, but self-defense is self-defense and i personally felt nothing but relief when killing a pursuing k9, but i understand other people are really against that sort of thing. Speaking of enemy characters, them yelling out each others names was a cool touch at first but after a while just started being so ridiculous it was bordering on parody, just like the pregnant mother on the front lines slamming her pregnant baby against every possible surface then giving Abby advice on whats best for Lev. what? All this and i feel like i haven't even scratched the surface about what pisses me off about this game! but i actually need to make a critical and thought out review now so here we go..

\-Review-

The games story is a generic "revenge is bad" story with lots of gimmicks to make it seem deeper than it actually is, The constant mirroring of Ellie and Abbys story as an attempt to make players empathize with this new character and the mirroring between Joel and Ellie to push the notion that Ellie is turning into him felt constant, obnoxious and took precedence over the overarching story which also fell flat on it's face. Portraying Ellie as someone who kills dogs while Abby as someone who plays with and cares for dogs was laughable at best and shows the clear bias the writers had towards certain characters which leads me to my next point. This story felt like Neil Druckman had a score to settle with Bruce Straley, because he wanted to do a revenge story and was told people wouldn't buy it he wanted to prove him wrong, so he ineffectively tries to paint his old characters as vicious and evil while trying to force players to fall in love with these new "so much more moral characters" for no other reason than him being cocky and wanting to make the job harder for himself so he could have more bragging rights, and even though i did like Lev by the end of this story he did not hold a candle to Ellie from the first game, and i still wanted to see Abby dead by the end of the game. After watching the ending i felt disappointed, sad for the wrong reasons and had no interest in playing through the game again. However i did go back to play some of the old encounters as Ellie which brings us to the combat and gameplay of this game. The gameplay is tons of fun, replayability was definitely kept in mind the entire time structuring these encounters, and it led to this games most memorable moments coming from replaying encounters over and over, experimenting with different ways to tackle the encounters and trying to do them in a way that the developers didn't intend for, so you could brag about it to your friends or on YouTube. The weapon sounds and animations were beyond satisfying and aiming has been made more tricky to make headshots feel more earned and it adds to the great experience if you decided to go loud or have to go loud in the few encounters that forces you to. Just as an added bonus, difficulty is fully customizable, if you're playing on the highest difficulty but want there to be more supplies and ammo or think the AI is too accurate, you can adjust their respective sliders down to a lower difficulty just for those 2 things instead of lowering the main difficulty, we need more of this in video games! The graphics are getting a lot of praise and it deserves all of it, every tree, every leaf, every wrecked area of Seattle feels real and looks absolutely stunning, the set pieces and spectacles are something to behold and it was the key ingredient in this game that got me through most of the story before i quit 3 hours before the ending due to a difficult to stomach encounter that i won't mention. The expressions on the characters faces are impossibly well animated, i could tell exactly what the characters were feeling and/or pretending not to feel without them having to even murmur a word just by looking at their faces. When characters did talk however, their respective voice actors did a sublime job at projecting the characters thoughts and emotions unto me and it almost made this story believable, even characters i felt were poorly written still had an incredible voice actor who did their best to fill the holes in the script, but too many holes couldn't be filled. The playable guitar in the game was probably my favorite part about this whole game, i've personally spent hours learning Nothing Else Matters by Metallica, Hurt by Johnny Cash and Californication by Red Hot Chilli Peppers which despite the fact that i could have played those songs better it still sounds impressively similar to the original song and that is nothing short of Fucking Awesome! All of these good features and all of this hard work by developers, designers, actors, etc. who are evidently the best in their field, and without a doubt deserve every award they get, all of it just gets overshadowed by an unengaging, unsatisfying story that made fans of the original game feel insulted, robbed and lied to with the deceptive marketing that led to a game that couldn't deliver on any of its promises. If the story wasn't a crucial part in this franchise i would have given it a higher score but with how important it was to players like myself, how old characters were condemned and just the unsatisfying nature and suspense being replaced with cheap shock value i can't give this game anything higher than a 5.5/10 for "it has its ups and downs but you cant deny that view"

Sam:"What are you scared of?"

Ellie:"uhh, let's see. Spiders are pretty creepy."

Sam:"..."

Ellie:"Being by myself.. i'm scared of ending up alone."